Rippling was born out of kind of this
like revenge fantasy. That's what kind
of got the company going and it's
certainly what what kept me going for
the first couple years. I love the
people I work with. I sort of really
like the problems that we're solving. I
feel like we're, you know, making a
difference for customers in this sort of
small way for their companies and that's
all extremely motivating. But early on,
you know, it's it's a grind. People come
to me all the time. They're like, "Oh,
I'm like thinking about doing, you know,
starting a company. What do you think?"
And my advice is always like, "Don't do
it. It's a terrible idea.
[music]
Okay, in this episode you're going to
hear from Parker Conrad. He's one of the
most compelling CEOs in Silicon Valley
in my opinion. He runs Ripling. It's an
amazing back office software company.
It's a $17 billion market cap with 4,000
employees. Incredibly successful. Almost
everyone, including myself, never
thought he would get this company off
the ground. And that's because he was
very violently fired from his last
company's benefits. And I remember when
that went down and I thought, man, he's
done. He'll never get up off the mat.
And I'm really impressed he has and and
how well he's done. He's also had a lot
of drama with a competitor deal very
recently who was spying on information
inside his systems and there's a lawsuit
and arrests and all kinds of drama
around that. So there's lots of good
drama in here for you who are into that.
But in between the drama, there's some
pearls of scale up CEO wisdom. He's not
your typical CEO. He rethinks things
from scratch in a way that I find
compelling. I like the way he thinks
about hiring. I think it's quite
interesting how his company has over 100
former founders in it. I like the way he
thinks about scaling without getting
sclerotic. 4,000 people is pretty big.
It's still moving fast. Very hard to do.
And I like how his chip on his shoulder
can supercharge his whole career. And
that can supercharge yours, too. So,
he's going to get into that. Parker's
basically written the book on turning
your darkest professional moment into
your greatest competitive advantage. I
hope you like it. How you doing?
>> Doing pretty good.
>> At Sequoia, one of the things they
always talk about is they like founders
with chips on their shoulders. Do you
have a chip on your shoulder?
>> I think so. Um I think it's like, you
know, maybe faded a little bit over
time. You know, I tried very hard to
keep it honed to razor sharpness, but I
think certainly Rippling was born out of
kind of this like revenge fantasy. Um,
and like that's what kind of got the
company going and it's certainly what
what kept me going for the first couple
years. You know, there are a lot of
other things that I love about my job. I
love the people I work with. I sort of
really like the problems that we're
solving. I feel like we're, you know,
making a difference for customers in
this sort of small way for their
companies and that's all extremely
motivating. But, but yeah, early on, you
know, it's it's a grind when you're
starting a company. And, uh, this wasn't
like my first rodeo. It's my third and
doing it the third time around. I think
they're really like it was helpful to
have this like extra bit of motivation
that was there for me every night when I
went to bed and like every morning when
I woke up.
>> Do you think that you have exacted
revenge on those doubters and those
people who did you wrong or not? And do
you think you'll ever put that to bed in
your own brain or is it is it a source
of constant motivation for the rest of
your life?
>> I don't know. It's so um Have you ever
seen there's a South Park episode? The
the Underpants Gnomes.
>> I love it's my favorite episode.
>> So it's sort of Yeah, Underpants for for
people who aren't familiar with it. You
know, the kids sort of follow these
gnomes that are like stealing everyone's
underpants and they follow them to their
secret underground layer and they're
like, "Why are you stealing everyone's
underpants?" And there's this sort of
secret plan for world domination. And
it's like step one like steel
underpants, step three, world
domination. And the kids are like,
"What's step two?" And they're like, "Oh
[__] we never really we never really
thought about that." And sometimes I
think it's a little bit like that with
me where it was like, you know, I felt
like when things went south at Zenits, I
wasn't allowed to talk about it and the
entire story was being written by sort
of my antagonists, you know, that were
just saying all the stuff that, you
know, I felt wasn't wasn't true, wasn't
actually was going on, like it was
unfair and I couldn't do anything about
it. And so for me there was always kind
of this idea where I was like step one
build this like multiundred billion
dollar outcome in like the exact same
space and by doing it in exactly the
opposite way of everything that they
said was like the right way to do it and
then like step three was like somehow
like you know get get like revenge on
all of them and like step two was like
always sort of like vaguely like how's
like A connected to B was like sort has
always been sort of unclear. The
company's a lot of fun, you know, like I
I started out and
>> not just revenge.
>> Yeah. I mean, everyone sort of told me,
well, you need to develop actually early
on like our our our series A investor,
you know, I I was very open about these
motivations and and Mimoon was like,
"Hey, that's kind of dark. Like, maybe
you should maybe you should talk to
someone about that." And actually,
there's like an exec coach that came in
and I talked to this guy and you know,
he was sort of constantly like, "You
need to have all these positive
motivations and no negative
motivations." and he went and he did
sort of interviews with all of my direct
reports of the company and one of his
questions was like, "How do you feel
about the fact that Parker is like
motivated in these ways?" And and
everyone was like, "I hope he never
loses it." And so there was definitely
like
>> that element of it. Um but like over
over time I think you know despite all
of my attempts to sort of like focus my
anger on this stuff I think that yeah
like the a lot of you know sort of
dayto-day is like you know all of that
stuff is very distant and it's much more
about sort of the excitement of what
we're building and the problems that
we're solving and the people that I work
with who I really enjoy working with.
>> Yes or no? Have you exacted revenge on
your antagonist from Zenitz?
>> I don't think so.
>> Will you at some point answer that
question as a yes? And at what point is
that a yes?
>> I'm not sure that there is any
just$undred
>> billion dollar IPO kind of thing. It's
like, okay, check. I was right. I don't
think that that I'm not sure that like
one leads to the other, you know, and I
think that you don't necessarily get
that kind of satisfaction,
>> but also
everything sort of fades with time. It
stops
>> being the thing that is like the focus
of what you're doing every single day.
>> I remember when that whole thing went
down
and then I remember you got your series
A and I thought,
okay, you had a Someone painted a
scarlet letter on you and I was like
it's going to be hard for him to raise
again and you raised. You talk about
that fund raise and
how did it go down like getting over
that must have been non-trivial.
>> It was a weird process because um there
were definitely like I mean at the time
Ripling was doing really well. I mean
like the numbers we kind of showed
everyone our numbers and the numbers
were I think quite impressive
>> and you and you had personally you know
angel funded it I assume you seated it.
I I I did some amount and then and then
we raised a seed round where we had a
bunch of like really early believers a
lot and a lot of them were
>> former ZS seed investors
>> y
>> who really who backed me again
>> and a lot of sort of people in the YC
community YC partners initialized Gary
Tan Sam Alman all those guys
>> you're doing the A you got the scarlet
letter
>> and so then we went out to raise to
raise our series A [snorts] and it was
it was very controversial and there you
know there were like every firm was
really interested because the numbers
were so good. Um, and I think there were
a couple of firms that went really deep
like the basically at the at the time
our the partner at Sequoia Mike Vernal
who was looking at the deal um Mike came
to me and he said look there's one
reason to do this deal and there's one
reason not to do this deal and they're
the same reason. Um, and that was what
everyone was trying to figure out. And,
and I think, you know, Sequoia
went really deep and, you know, I think
Mike told me that, you know, you guys
did, I mean, because Sequoia always does
this just incredibly deep diligence. you
know, talked to like 50 different
executives or people in management
positions at ZFenefits to really
understand the picture and came away
with a lot of conviction that they felt
like okay we you know we Sequoia feel
very very comfortable with this.
Unfortunately, we didn't end up working
with Sequoia at that point. It was a
little bit later. Yeah. Um but a couple
of other firms did that as well and
there were a couple that kind of just
like backed out and you know one firm
sort of lead guy there you know called
up David David Sachs and you know I got
a phone call on a Sunday night said hey
so and so spoke with David we've got to
cancel the meeting on a Monday you know
like it was just that there was sort of
a more superficial amount of diligence
on it. there were these two camps. Um,
and uh, and you know, but even so, there
were enough people in the camp of like
we're excited about the business and not
concerned about the history that the
round was like really competitive and
got done
>> nice,
>> you know, on great terms. We were pretty
excited about it.
>> When was the last time you saw David?
>> I have not spoken to him since about a
week before I left.
>> I see. I've sort of like seen him across
the room at a conference since then.
>> Is there anything you want to say to him
today?
>> Uh
pro probably not a great idea.
>> How about I'll say it for you. I told
you so. [laughter]
>> I don't actually I don't actually think
that that's what I think like if I was
talking to David, it would really be
like why, you know, like why? Like I
look at it, it just it feels like it was
so unnecessary. Yeah.
>> You know, like like even in a world
where they were like, "Hey, we've got to
make a change."
Like those types of things are usually
not accompanied by the type of character
assassination like and it was like
deep and prolonged
effort like they hired people [snorts]
and those people were were sort of doing
this in the media like pitching stories
but like week after week after week and
that is just like it's unusual it's
expensive it's like a lot of effort. I
remember it went down. I remember the
media. They wrote they they wrote some
things that were very tough. They
basically blamed a lot of stuff on you.
I don't remember the prolonged, but why
do you think they thought that was a
good idea? I mean, they're relatively
rational economic actors. Some of this I
think is like David and some of this you
sort of see in the way that David I mean
is like you know very successful
as sort of this more political type of
actor and I remember David came to me at
one point
>> we know at Zens when we were having our
own sort of conflict with ADP we ended
up in in some litigation with them and
David told me he said look here's the
thing if you're ever in kind of one of
these media [__] fights,
you want to attack, attack, attack,
attack.
>> And if the other guy
>> rolls over and cries, "Uncle,"
>> that means it's working. And you want to
keep attacking, attacking, attacking,
attacking. And and I think that that was
like his playbook. Like that was like
sort of the way it operated. And you
know, and and some of it, it wasn't it
wasn't just that like they blamed me for
everything. I mean like look ultimately
I'm the CEO. I I you know I am
responsible for things. It was the way
that things that were mistakes, you
know, that were like, hey, we we thought
this was what we were supposed to do and
it was something else were instead the
legal word for this would be like,
you know, like there's some intentional
kind of thing
>> for what was I think in retrospect
much more just sort of accidental like
as companies are growing quickly and you
know little things that you know you
sort of don't recognize. as or just
unaware as like things that are h you
know suddenly are like actually you
overlooked something.
>> How did you feel like when you first saw
it? I assume you didn't have a heads up.
You saw it like was it anger? Was it
confusion? What did you say to your
wife? Like what was going on inside the
four walls of your body?
>> One of the things that happened right
before the announcement is um I was like
so depressed about the whole thing.
Yeah,
>> that I stopped looking at the media and
I didn't read
stories about me or about Ripling for
like
five or six years from that point. It
was a long time
>> or or Zenits.
>> Um and my wife would always read them.
And so when the announcement came out,
there was a press release that that we
had drafted and it was sort of one of
these sort of anodine things that was
like, hey, look, company needs new type
of leadership.
>> Parker, you know, like great job taking
it this far. Yep.
>> David coming in wants to spend more time
with his family. Typical stuff.
>> Typical stuff. and [laughter] and uh and
instead they just like David issued a
different press release and the the
press release was like
this company has a whole bunch of
compliance problems. It's because you
know Parker doesn't care about
compliance. He's not here anymore.
>> Yeah.
>> And it went south from there. And I
remember, you know, when it came out, um
I mean, it was such a shock. Um it was
just very unexpected. And then it it
just got worse from there. And it was
actually my wife that read it and turned
to me and said, "Oh, they they [__]
you." Like, don't. She was like, "Don't
even read it. Like, don't look at it."
It was deeply depressing. I mean, there
were like really really dark moments.
And some of like the chip on the
shoulder was kind of like I'm either
there was sort of this one
little ray of light, this one path out
which was like,
you know, build this company and make it
successful or like it's just all over
and you kind of give up. And it was kind
of like it felt like those were the two
choices and like that and that was
very hard and very depressing, but it
was also like very clarifying and very
motivating that I felt like okay like
this is like this is the only thing that
I'm here for and this is the only thing
that I care about is like making this
thing work.
>> Okay.
>> A lot of people listening are founder
CEOs. People want to be CEOs. You've
been through some crises in some [__]
shows. Yeah,
>> I have two advice for people
crisis going on.
Most CEOs hit some big [__] show crises
during their tenure. Any advice?
>> People come to me all the time. They're
like, oh, I'm like thinking about doing,
you know, starting a company. What do
you think? And my advice is always like,
don't do it. It's a terrible idea.
[clears throat] And like I and people
always sort of laugh. They're like,
haha. But like it it's very like it's
very real. Like I do think that it is
like like much much harder than people
expect. It's not just that it's hard to
be successful. It's that it's sort of
really kind of soul destroying like even
when you're successful and very hard to
kind of manage your psychology through
through that that process and people
come out the other end. And there's a
lot of you know there's a lot of I think
talk about you know failure being sort
of this positive thing that you learn a
lot from. And actually I think you don't
learn a whole lot from failure and you
learn a lot more from success. And
[clears throat] it's really hard. You
know, usually I think people I see many
more people that do something like this
and don't succeed and it sort of like
destroys a lot. you know, it destroys
marriages, relationships,
um, you know, ambitions, you know, like
people kind of come out like a shell
their former selves and and so it's not
something that I that I'd recommend.
>> I kind of agree. I describe HubSpot as
like two steps forward, one giant step
back, two steps forward, one giant step
back, like
>> over and over again.
>> It was, it looked smooth and easy from
the outside, but man, it was a grind. It
was not easy and there were there were a
lot of moments where I really hated my
job.
>> Yeah.
>> Um you feel the same way?
>> Yeah. I mean I would say that um one
thing that was that was different about
Ripley. I think in part because of the
experience at Zenits is like people
sometimes ask me like you know what I
learned and and you know sort of there's
like insucently I'm kind of like I
didn't learn anything like you know
Zenits failed for dumb reasons and like
there was nothing to learn from that.
Um, but I I do think that like, you
know, over time you sort of slowly
accumulate a kind of pattern recognition
about like what matters and what doesn't
and and that can that makes things a
little bit easier because there are a
lot of things that come up
>> where you're like this probably doesn't
matter. Yeah. you know, and when it
sucks, but like it's nowhere's near and
and and no matter how bad things have
ever been at Ripley, they have never
come even close to how bad things were
in the sort of 6 months,
>> like you know, right after the end of
Zettz or when when I left Zenetss and so
everything kind of pales in comparison
and and that is always uh that's sort of
comforting in a way. What
>> you brought something up, what matters
and what doesn't? like what matters that
people don't think matter and what
doesn't matter that people think
matters. I mean sort of the advantage of
having done something before I think you
start to have good judgment about what
is you know because so many of the
things that come up are probably like
doesn't matter y
>> not going to make a difference and some
things come up are like oo that one's
going to count
>> and I think it's hard for firsttime CEOs
to really see the difference between
those it feels like everything's going
to matter and and that's part of why
it's like so overwhelming and awful.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and some of the things really
actually do matter. Um
>> what really matters?
>> I think getting your strategy right,
like where are we headed in the bus and
getting the right people on the team are
really important things and a lot of
other stuff can fall by the wayside.
>> Yeah. I mean, those things matter.
>> Getting like your mission set up so
people can get excited about the darn
thing.
>> Yeah. [clears throat] I'm trying to
think like I mean I think like there are
little little things that go wrong that
feel very consequential in the moment
that you start to realize over time
don't matter and like if you're not
growing that that obviously matters. At
Ripling it took us like two years to get
to a point where things started working.
>> Yeah. Hub was about that too. And like
for two years it was sort of this
exercise to try and like basically beg
the team not to leave until until things
started working. Yeah. But there was
also like
>> zero doubt in my mind that it was going
to work. And that that was sort of a big
difference because like I sort of knew
>> that like if you built these things and
got and got to this sort of, you know,
this island of product market fit that
was admittedly pretty far over the edge
of the horizon line, but like I knew
that there was land out there and and
that if you could get there, this was
going to work. And I, you know, had
having seen what was working and why at
Zenits, I just had like unshakable
conviction that this was. And so there
was never a doubt that was going to
work. And it was merely about like
whether like quite frankly we could keep
prevent everyone from quitting
>> like before we we got there. And so
early on actually like you know trying
to just keep the team together
>> mattered a lot. and and and at that
point whether it was like working today
or not like didn't so much in the this
very specific context of the company
that I was building and I think for a
lot of other companies that's not true
because like you know you might believe
that things are going to work but you're
probably wrong or you know like you're
if you have a lot of conviction about it
your conviction is like misplaced. Yeah,
>> maybe mine was too but I you know like I
was sort of crazy enough or believed
that I had reasons to believe that this
was going to work. Parker, um,
>> you're kind of a contrarian along a lot
of lines. That's one of the things I've
always liked about you. What do people
have totally wrong about being a CEO?
Like there seems to be sort of a
rulebook around it that is kind of
getting rethought these days and I feel
like you're rethinking pieces of it.
What What's all wrong about CEOing? Um,
>> what do these founder CEOs, what
mistakes are they making?
>> Well, I'll tell you. Um, I mean, I don't
know. I know so little about like any
business that's not my own. So, it's
hard it's hard for me to have like big
opinions about like sort of the
ecosystem. But I think that like one
thing that I that I um sort of believe
in that that maybe is becoming like you
know more more sort of um more more of
the conventional wisdom today um is I've
always struggled with the idea that as a
CEO you're supposed to kind of manage
top down through a set of deputies and
you know you you hire people who are
knowledgeable about this area you trust
them and you let them kind of do their
thing. Um, and that's just never worked
for me. Like what's what's what's worked
is
>> you kind of have to reason from first
principles. And and you could do that
with some of your lieutenants who can
help you through it to sort of convince
yourself of exactly what the right
approach is in in that area. And and you
have to have like real on an on the
ground understanding of what's actually
going on um yourself. Um, and if you
don't have that, like that's the only
thing that's that's worked for me.
>> Um, and it's really it's tough to scale.
It's tough to scale that. You know, it's
it's hard it's hard on you. I think it's
hard on some of the other people, but
it's the it's the only thing that's sort
of um
worked for me and the only thing that
it's the thing that's really worked for
Ripling. Um, and so we have a leadership
principle that we've formalized on this
that we call go and see. That's that's
basically like look if you're it's true
for me but it's also true for you know
executives and and managers that like
you know you've got to you've got to go
right to the ground
>> cold face.
>> Yeah. And get that's a good way of
saying it, right? Um and you've got to
you know something there was a point in
time where things were just like really
going wrong with tax operations and like
you know we're we're a payroll company.
One of the things that we do is we do,
you know, we do these sort of quarterly
filings for clients and, you know, there
are thousands of agencies across the
country that you need to send these to
and there are a million little things
that can go wrong and if anything's off
by like a penny, clients get like angry
letters about this and it's really bad.
things were going wrong. Like the notice
the rate at which clients were getting
notices from Rippling we knew was like
higher than the notice rate at other
companies and it was like a an
existential threat to the business and
like that was something where there was
some muscle memory for me that this was
actually something that would kill the
company
>> that matters. It was something that
matters. Um, you know, the only thing
that worked to solve it was, you know,
was what happened is I got, you know,
like me and my COO and like, you know,
the person running the team and like
someone else. We sort of wiped out our
calendars and we sat down and we said
for the next week, you know, we're going
to just be tax ops agents. And so, we're
literally going to, you know, because
there was this growing backlog of
notices that needed to be addressed that
clients were sending us. And we're just
going to pick from the queue and start
figuring out like calling up the tax
agency. Why did the client get this
notice? What happened? You know, why did
they believe that, you know, the the
amount was wrong or the money didn't get
there or the filing was not on time or
something? and and then reverse engineer
it in our systems and be like and it was
just like doing doing the actual work of
doing it was the only and then sort of
like by doing that we developed this
understanding of like what was broken
about the process what was broken about
the systems what were the changes that
need to be made
>> but it was like impossible to diagnose
or understand without sitting there and
doing that.
>> Okay. on the matters thing. It seems to
me from just listening to you and I also
spoke to a couple people on your team, a
lot of things matter. And then one of
the insights I think you've had is
details matter from the CEO on down and
you're in the details in a big way for a
company that has four four or 5,000
employees. Is that fair to say?
>> Um
>> I think more more so than me for sure.
It seems like you are like you sit in
the middle of the engineering floor. It
sounds like you are on the coal face for
somebody in a pretty goodiz
organization.
>> I certainly try to be and so I I
>> that's I view that as like a huge
compliment if you know from from the
team. I think the place where I try and
do that the most and what's what's maybe
sort of most unusual about Ripling is is
that I'm the the only like full admin
for Ripling in Ripling and so like I run
payroll for the entire company across
dozens of countries. I manage sort of
like benefits and you know a lot of like
you know IT policies and other stuff
within within the system.
>> Yep. you know, approve expense
reimbursements, things like that. Um,
>> I was similar to HubSpot. I was a very
active user of HubSpot, one of the most
active users for many.
>> So, I think that's important. It's like
one of the things like people, you know,
learn when they join Ripple is like the
CEO approves every expense reimbursement
over $10. And the reason for that is
like not [clears throat] that I'm like
this jerk that's like harassing people
about their expenses. It's that I'm
trying to actually use the product in
the same ways that that clients would
that like a diligent
>> controller or you know sort of
accountant yeah
>> would use the system and help review it
in the same ways that they would and try
and use that to sort of iterate and
improve on things over time. There are a
lot of things that that we get wrong as
a company. But I do think that that that
element is like a little bit of a
superpower because I I know that,
you know, the CEOs of, you know, ADP or
>> they're not doing that
>> or whatever, they've never run payroll
in their lives. Like never. um you know
there's a a sort of on the ground
understanding of the system and that you
know that doesn't mean that you know we
always get everything right but I think
that um you know it's a it's a sort of
control on the system and and one of the
ways that it play one of the things that
I'm most proud about is that we did this
study where we we looked at companies
that use rippling and companies that use
anything other than rippling and some of
them use like
>> modern systems
competitors of ours that are sort of
more recent market entrance. Some of
them use the more old school systems and
you just look at how many people those
companies have in HR, IT and finance
roles and GNA roles within the
organization based on LinkedIn data. And
what you find is that the companies that
use Ripling at any given size range, so
you you have to look at it by company
size obviously, you know, companies that
use Rippling have about half the people
in those functions than companies that
use anything else.
>> I love that. Um, I love that s and
that's look I think that that you know
it's not that you know our pitch is not
like hey like you know like lay off
people if you use Ripley it's those
extra headcount they they represent all
of this administrative burden they they
represent attacks on your business
because those are people that are just
moving data between systems dealing with
administrative pain
>> that you could instead redeploy for
things that matter within your business.
Parker, so you're in the details. You
just talked about your own CEO journey
from like the four of you to there's 40
of you to 400 of you, 4,000 of you.
Somehow you've managed to stay in the
details. How has your job changed? What
advice do you give to that founder with
40 people on how to scale it? How did
your job change and how did your
daytoday change? I think probably the
most important thing was the like the
people a level below me. And honestly, I
think that probably like their jobs have
changed a lot more
>> interesting
>> than than mine has because
>> the executive team at Ripling has been
like pretty like stable over time. Um
there's been like there's been some
turnover but I think you know a lot of
the people that are there you know like
our CRO was the eighth person in the
company and you know my COO joined when
you know right after the series A but he
and I you know had known each other
since college so we've been friends for
a long time
>> you know there have been a bunch of
people that have sort of been there a
long time and so there's just I think a
lot of trust um and uh I think every you
how everyone's kind of grow like
everyone's sort of grown in in the in
their in their function and in their
job.
>> Okay.
>> Over time,
>> one of the things I've noticed, Parker,
VCs do as soon as they make their
investment, like the first thing they
say is like, "We got to uplevel the
team."
>> Yeah.
>> And when I look at the best companies, a
lot of the management teams are kind of
homegrown. Like a lot of HubSpot's
management team been there since the
pretty early days. Uh what do you think
of that advice? I think Homegrown's
really underrated. Home Road's
underrated, but also like if the people
sometimes the people that you're trying
to grow are not going to make it
sometimes, you know? And so I think what
I would say is like hiring people that
you just are you're really close to. I
mean, it's weird to say, but hiring
people that like you've worked with,
that you're friends with, that you enjoy
working with, like
>> really lowers the risk.
>> Really underrated, actually.
>> Lowers the risk. It's underrated. Yeah.
and and so
>> went to school with.
>> Yeah. There are people that we brought
in that, you know, we hired that were
not like that that have been
unbelievably successful as well.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> but there is something to the fact that
like um you know for the for a long time
Ripley CMO he's now stepped into a
different role but was this guy Matt
Epstein who was like you know I worked
with him as CMO at my first company. He
was CMO at Zens. He joined Riplane, was
CMO at Ripley, like it was just this
longstanding like professional
relationship that I had and um and
there's some there's sort of something
to that. I feel like I have a pretty
good sense of whether someone's going to
make it or not and I'm sort of wondering
like how would I do, you know, your job
at Sequoa and advise like an
entrepreneur on their team. I would have
a lot of humility about it and I would
be like, man, I just don't I don't know
how I would explain that or judge that.
And and one of the problems I think for
investors is I think it's actually
really hard to do from the outside. And
so even if you have like done it
yourself, you know, you're just not
spending enough time at the company to
really know about this exec and whether
they're going to make it. And so the
advice is like maybe not all that
useful. And then you know if you're if
you're an entrepreneur that's doing this
for the first time it just I don't see
how anyone figures I mean look looking
back I'm like I don't understand how
anyone figures their way through this
because it seems like so hard to know
having not seen it.
>> I'll tell you the one thing I've noticed
with so many of the early stage
mid-stage startups is their hit rate on
hiring that external been there done
that CMO see what is it's 50% within 18
months. It's much harder than it looks.
people don't talk about it. What have in
in this vein, you're interviewing
somebody. What what's your filter? What
are you looking for? What's your
process? Like do you is there anything
unusual you're doing around there that
you think you might be have some
intuition that people don't
>> Here's what I do. And I don't I'm not
I'm not saying that what I do is like
the right thing to do. Yeah.
>> But usually what I do is I send
candidates all of the in investor
materials that I prepared. So I send
them like we write up a memo on the
business. There's like some metrics and
I send all of that to them ahead of time
so they have context and they show up to
the meeting and I'm just like look this
first meeting is really just a chance
for you to ask me questions. So you know
sure you had a chance to look through
this. You know what what didn't make
sense to you? What were you like I don't
think that's right. You know what did
you have questions on and let's talk
through it. And then usually we sort of
talk through their questions and and and
sort of secretly
I I I'm sort of judging them by how that
conversation progresses. And so some
people have like no questions and that's
like that's usually pretty a pretty bad
sign. Or some people have like clearly
like fake questions. Um, and some people
like actually like even very skeptical
questions are really good. Like if
they're smart, there are some people
that like they immediately get to the
core of the issue, you know, where they
they identify like the two things that
are going to really be problems. And
then and then sometimes we have a great
discussion about it because, you know,
I've got I've thought about those things
too. You know, I spent a lot of time
like here's how we're approaching it.
here's what I think and here's what
didn't work and here's what I think is
going to work and this is why this is so
important and and and sometimes the
people that ask those really challenging
questions they get it really quickly and
they're like oh yeah and that means also
that and then as a consequence of that
and I think it works because it it kind
of simulates the act what the actual
working relationship is going to be like
where we're going to have those types of
conversations
>> in our one-on-one meetings and like
>> and and that's going to work and so
that's always been the thing that's been
most telling for me. That and back
channel references.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, like not I usually ask people
like give me like six references,
not two because everyone's got two. So,
you know, give me six and then I call
two randomly from that list and then I
try really hard to find people that are
not on your list.
>> I'm the same. Yeah.
>> And that that's been really telling. Um,
the thing that I've always I don't have
a good answer for is I found it's really
hard to summon great executives on
demand. And so,
>> wait, what do you mean by that?
>> Well, it's like someone suddenly someone
leaves or someone is like it's like not
going to make it and it's, you know, and
you're like crap, I need a CTO,
>> right?
>> Yeah. our current CTO, who's amazing,
was someone that randomly
fell into my lap, you know, that that um
someone at Sequoia introduced me to and
and and it was like, wow, like this is
amazing. And it was very clear that,
>> you know, this person was exactly who we
should hire,
>> but we'd hired someone else,
>> you know, 6 months earlier. It was not
working out. And we hired that person
sort of like it was one of those things
where we had been looking for so long.
>> Yeah. You gave up,
>> you know, looking for so long. It was
like, "Oh, maybe
maybe it'll work." You know, and and we
had
>> Does that ever work?
>> Never. Never. It never does. But like,
what are you going to I mean, like we'd
been looking I don't know. I think we've
been looking for like a year, you know?
It's just
>> And all the his direct reports report to
you in the meantime, which is like
brutal.
>> Yeah. And so um and you know and and so
what I mean I'll tell you what doesn't
work is like usually like exec
recruiters don't work.
>> Okay.
>> And
>> I was just about to ask you that. Okay.
>> Exact recruiters are you know great at
sending you solid B candidates.
>> And there's always the exception that
proves the rules. So we hired our CFO
who's amazing. good person to hire
through an executive recruiter,
>> through an exec recruiter, they're like
actually like really incredible. Yeah.
>> And so there are some exceptions, but
usually they send you a lot of of B
candidates. And the problem is that I
think the really incredible people,
>> they get snatched up totally
>> before they know with an exec recruiter
like they're they're like, you know,
they've always got people pinging them.
They get a million options
>> and they've got [clears throat] they've
got relationships with people and
someone is yanking them out and like
they sort of,
>> you know, they sort of secretly whisper
to their spouse that maybe they're
thinking about leaving and there's five
people the next morning that heard about
it
>> and are already like, you know, been
talking with them for a long time and
have worked with them before and have
been nurturing them on drip marketing
campaign.
>> Make it into the
>> Okay, let me ask related to this. You
hire someone, it's a month in, you're
like, [sighs]
I might have [__] this up, but it
ended up working. Has that ever
happened?
>> Never.
>> Okay. So, a month in, if you if if your
gut tells you it's not right, you
just How long do you wait?
>> Always longer than a month.
>> How long do you wait? Six months.
>> I mean, yeah. Like I mean I like and the
frustrating thing is like I see this
behavior in managers at Ripling and I
get very upset about it and very angry
about it. Like why did you why did you
[__] this up? You know like like you can
see it happening. Like I have this
conversation all the time where I'm like
you know I'm like okay here's your team.
>> How many of these people right now like
tell me which of these people you would
bet your career on? and like whoa.
And it's like, well, this person and
this person.
And I'm like, none of the rest. You're
like, well, it's a tough, you know, and
I'm like, okay, get, you know, like fire
all like, let's start over, you know,
and and like, well, no, no, you, you
know, there's all kinds of reasons why,
you know, can't, you know, not yet. And
inevitably,
>> they're all gone in a year.
>> They're all gone. But it takes a long
time
>> to get there and it's so frustrating, so
infuriating. And it's like why why can't
you as a manager just do the job that we
expect of you and make the hard
decisions and I make all the same
mistakes myself like you know it's
[clears throat] like all you know
equally difficult for me when things are
not working out.
>> It sounds to me from people I've spoken
with inside of Ripley and yourself that
it was an intense startup and all
startups are pretty intense but it's now
an intense scale up. You've kept that
pace and intensity up as you scaled
through the years. Most of the founders
I work with are really struggling around
100 150 employees. They're bringing in
new people they didn't know. Well, there
couple middle managers showing up. That
intensity and that pace doesn't seem to
scale. How have you scaled that? Well, I
think one one thing that I believe very
firmly is that there's ultimately only
one person in the organiz
and and it's you as the CEO. Um and and
so it's really one of your biggest jobs
is to sort of set the clock speed of the
organization. And the reason is is that
everyone else in the organization can
sort of solve for all of their problems
by just extending the timelines. you
know, like they can get it done to, you
know, in the ways that they want to get
it done. They can, you know, they don't
have to, you know, sort of make
unreasonable asks of people that
they're, you know, like every every
other constraint can be solved for with
more time. What happens is things start
to get like really slow and there are
real problems with that for the
organization long term, but usually not
for like any individual manager or
executive within the company. And so
you're the only natural constituency for
moving quickly. And so you really have
to be you really have to care about it
and and you have to sort of pay
attention when when people are trying to
slow it down. And so one of one of the
things that happens is like your team
will often come to you and they will
present you with what I call CEO in a
box decisions where they will say look
we can do A or we can do B like you
choose and it's this illusion of choice
>> tyranny of war.
>> Yeah. It's it's this but it's an
illusion of choice because the choice
has already been made for you because
the important choice
>> was the decision that A and B cannot
coexist. Um, and usually like my
immediate reaction when someone brings
me something like that is to just on
principle insist that we have both A and
B and like understand like what laws of
physics are violated
>> that prevent A and B from coexist.
There's like the second law of
thermodynamics problem. Sometimes it's
like it's much harder for the team to do
A and B and they would prefer not to do
that. Um, sometimes it's actually just
as simple as asking people for a third
path, you know, to like say, I don't I
don't like these options, like can we
just think a little bit harder and is
there some way to kind of get there?
When you think about like the pace at
which organizations move,
I think the natural thing is people sort
of believe, man, if you're like
tyrannical CEO that's like driving
people really hard and like you know
what's going to happen at most maybe
it's like 20% more. Patrick Collison has
this great site that he put together on
sort of like things that moved absurdly
quickly and things that moved very
slowly. And it's this example of like we
the space program to land someone on the
moon was like four years and the vaness
bus lane was like two decades or
something in San Francisco. And you sort
of look at these at two different
organizations that might both have good
well-meaning people.
>> And like you know the organization that
moves quickly it's like it it's like
orders of it's like an order of
magnitude faster. It's not like 20%
faster. It's just amazing what
>> what you can accomplish. And so maybe
the the sort of slightly more positive
way of articulating this is I think that
that people um are often capable of so
much more than they believe themselves
to be capable of.
>> And so if you can sort of challenge them
about the perceived constraints on the
problem and explain to them the impact
of being able to do A and B and why like
what happens if we could do A and B.
Startups are somewhere between
completely impossible and very very very
very hard. And there's such a narrow ray
of light that passes between those two,
right? The companies that make it
through usually at multiple points in
the journey find ways to do things that
are seemingly impossible. Yeah. Um, and
it is you have to sort of acknowledge
that what you're asking for is like
really hard and you understand that and
it's just there's no other way, you
know, and so let's sit down together and
think about whether it's possible. And
sometimes people find
clever solutions or new new reserves of
possibility to kind of get there. And if
you kind of do that enough, it compounds
>> and and like you can accomplish a lot
more than the company that isn't doing
that.
>> I had a line where somebody would bring
me something like that and I would say,
"When Moses came down from the mountain
and he had the tablet,
was there an 11th commandment that we
all missed that we couldn't do this
thing we're talking about right now?"
>> Yeah. Exactly. You know, Yeah. Like it's
not it's not a law of physics. We can
figure it out.
>> Okay. I hear you've got something like
40 or 50 exfounders on your management
teams in your company. What's going on
with that? Why are you doing it? How do
you manage that chaos?
>> I think it's actually a lot more than
that now. Okay. Um um but
>> why? Um I think that
>> are you aqua hiring or hiring like
what's it what's the
>> sometimes we aqua hire sometimes we hire
[clears throat]
>> um it's it's a profile that we look for
um
>> you know rippling you know we sort of
coined this phrase I know HubSpot
HubSpot's been doing this for a long
time but we coined this phrase of like
compound software
>> you know I'm really mad at you about
this
>> because we are a compound star but we
never came up with a clever name
>> I like you it had totally stuck and
everyone's like Parker's the original
like we're the original
>> compact spot was doing it long before
us.
>> Well done.
>> But we um the reason that we we do this
is because I'm convinced that this is
the right way to build software and that
actually we've been building software
wrong for a couple of decades now. Um
and most people believe yeah yeah you're
doing compound software. there are some
like sales and marketing advantages to
building you know good enough but
integrated products and like that's not
it at all like I think the belief is
that actually you can build better
products by building them in this
integrated way and you can do it because
the fact that these things are deeply
integrated and seamlessly interoperable
on its own makes them better
>> but also when you're building across
like multiple applications you can
afford to invest much more deeply
in a set of capabilities that are common
to all of the applications. You know,
things like analytics and permissions
and workflows and custom objects and
stuff like that. But I think a lot of,
you know, and this was sort of the
original, like before we were this
articulate about what we were doing and
why.
>> It was one of the original founding
principles of Ripling was that we were
going to do more things, not less. And
this focus thing was [__] And like,
>> you know, that was like what David
wanted us to do, but that's completely
wrong. and we should do it this way and
and so a lot of
>> same with HubSpot. We're like this whole
focus thing like should do one thing
really well. We're like no we're going
to be very thin and but we're going to
get to table stakes at some point. It
was the exact same thesis we had.
>> Yeah. So yeah,
>> but a lot of the history of the company
is trying to figure out novel solutions
for the very real challenges with that
approach because there are a lot of
reasons why it is easier to focus on one
thing along the way. A lot of problems
come up and there are bottlenecks that
develop in different parts of the
organization
and one of the places that you know a
bottleneck forms is really at the level
of sort of executive attention around
these things and so you end up you end
up needing people who can be like the
CEO of these products or who can drive
things forward who can find a path
because a lot of people who are like
very good managers and executives in in
engineering or product or whatever, what
what they do is they they come to you
with problems and so they say there's a
series of gaps we have like in order to
win here's like a long list of things we
need to do and they unroll the list and
it rolls out onto the floor and goes all
the way down the hallway, you know, and
and like we've prioritized it by sort of
most important on on down and I have a
team of this guys. And this is about one
quarter's worth of work is like, you
know, these things this far down the
list. And so we're going to do one
quarter's worth of work and we're going
to solve these things. And and and
that's what it is. And the problem is is
like, yeah, but the list goes all the
way down the hallway. And and they're
like, well, but my job is to sort of,
you know, that's your problem, right?
like you're like and so they're asking
you to find a way to make ends meet
because you know they're like their job
is just to kind of move down the list
and and then you're you're still [__]
because like at the end of the day
they're going to do those things but
you're still not you still haven't
solved the problem which is like you
need to win
>> and so you need people who can find ways
to do the impossible that sort of
understand
>> look like the CEO that's asking continue
to do unreasonable things. Like I didn't
create this situation. Like the market
created like this is the reality that we
find ourselves in which is like we need
to do these things and if we don't we're
dead we're screwed. And so we need to
find some way or some alternate path or
some sort of you know there needs to be
some effort to solve the whole problem
or like it doesn't matter
you know that
>> and you think exfounders are
particularly
>> I think exfounders understand that
>> breaking the laws of physics
>> or they just they've been in situations
where they've they understand that like
yeah like it's like we either you know
they they've sat there and stared at the
dwindling bank balance while, you know,
while the sales isn't working and
they're like, "Oh shit." And like, and
they understand that like, "Yes, it's
absolutely true that like, you know,
this is a reasonable set of expectations
for the team this week, this month, this
quarter, this year, and yet if we do the
reasonable set of things, we're dead."
>> Yeah.
>> And and so like we can either give up or
we can try and find a way to accomplish
an unreasonable set of things.
>> How do you manage them though? founders
are typically a little unruly, want a
crap ton of autonomy, often don't play
with that well with others. Like, how do
you manage the chaos?
>> I don't know if I've found that to be
the because like, you know, if you're if
you started a company, I mean, look,
there's all kinds of people, but like,
you know, man, like you've got to
convince a bunch of people to work for
you, you know, that you know, when it
doesn't make any sense,
>> you know, and like there's a certain
amount of
charisma or interpersonal skills that
you've had to like develop like even if
you didn't have it. I think that that
most people are more well socialized
than that. But there there always I
guess exceptions and and we do give
people a lot of autonomy because like
the best thing in the world for me is
someone who can run with something, you
know, and and and sort of take it off my
plate. Um like that's that's ideal. So
everyone everyone's aligned on there
being that kind of autonomy.
Just switching gears briefly
um deal your main competitor
been a lot of drama around it.
Do you want to talk about it?
>> Sure. Weirdly I would say deal is a
competitor but probably not the main
one. Um you know the the companies
>> you got a lot of them. Yeah, there's a
lot of, you know, if I was like, who's
our main competitor space?
>> I would be like, man, you know, in
payroll, it's probably
>> Paycom, Payloity, ADP,
>> you know, workday for HCM, maybe, you
know, gusto down market.
>> Yep. you know, we we come up against
deal in specifically this sort of global
part of the business where you're I need
to hire someone in XYZ country and I
have like one or two people that I'm
hiring there and I don't know anything
about it and need some help but like
that's where we compete with them. But
um
>> but we have you know much much stronger
competition with these other companies.
It's just that some weird stuff
happened.
>> Yeah. Yeah. With with them.
>> Tell me about it. So, when was the first
inkling you had
that there was a spy that that someone
was spying on someone from deal was
spying on your company?
>> The weird thing about spy is like spy
makes it sound
>> it's great. It's a podcast.
>> Sort of sexy and fun.
>> That's the idea part
>> which for podcast. Great. But I think
it's really like it's not the deal was
spy. It's that they were stealing. Yeah,
it was it was just theft pure and direct
from the CEO of the company.
>> Yeah, it's worse.
>> And the the the thing that happened is
we got a reporter who was writing a
story sent us a bunch of rippling
internal Slack messages that, you know,
many of which were sort of cropped in
sort of like unflattering ways and taken
out of context and was like asking for
our comment on it. And just you know
because of the context it was it was
very clear for a bunch of reasons when
you thought about it that the only place
that this could have come from like it
had to have been deal like no one else
would have sort of known to send this
stuff to that reporter and so the
implication was the deal had you know
full access to our slack. Um and then
from there, you know, we so we sort of
knew what was going on immediately.
>> But even before that, did you have an
inkling like in some territory that they
were winning an unusual number of deals
and like how are they doing it? Was
there an inkling before that? there
really, you know, once you started
looking, you know, there were these
examples. There were like when this
story came out, you know, there were
customers that wrote into us and former
customers, you know, there that that
wrote into us and there was there was a
guy that was a former deal customer that
took a demo with Ripley and was talking
with us, came to us because he wanted to
switch and he spoke with a Ripling
account executive and within hours he
got a WhatsApp message from Alex
Buouies, this CEO of Deal, you know, who
he didn't know, never met before.
that was like, "Hey, I hear you're like,
you know, looking at other stuff, like,
you know, let's try and find a way to
get you, you know,
>> seems like an awful big coincidence."
>> Yeah. And he emailed at the time, and
this was before we knew anything was
going on.
>> He emailed his rep. He was like, "Whoa,
this is super weird. Like, this freaked
the hell out of me like I you know, how
did how did deal know that?" Like, you
know, and of course the rep thought
nothing of it, so it didn't go anywhere,
right? um until later you look back and
you're like, "Oh yeah, you can actually
trace the person that who's a Ripling
employee that deal started paying to
send them all of this internal steel
rippling internal data including
mostly like CRM data just like every
opportunity we were working, every
customer we were talking to, the pricing
we were offering them, the objections
they had,
>> you know, it was just every single day
just sending all of it directly to Alex.
Do you think Alex and crew targeted
someone or took an employee and got them
to work for you or there was somebody
working for you that they got to?
>> They co-opted somebody.
>> And you know the thing is that hasn't
been talked about a lot is
>> it it really seems like it was you know
wasn't wasn't just us. There were a
bunch of other companies and so you know
there was sort of
>> that they were doing it too or in the
industry large is a lot of this going
on. No, no. That that deal was doing
this.
>> I see.
>> You know, like we were not the only
ones. [clears throat]
>> And and that
>> it was a defined play.
>> Yeah. This was I I I think I believe
that this that that company was built on
this foundation
of theft from competitors
>> and that that was like a critical
component of what they're doing. And so,
you know, one of the things that we
decided to do is we decided to be
extremely public about this and come
forward.
>> Hold on. Even before that, so you get
this thing from your press guy like they
have to have access to our Slack.
>> Yeah.
>> And then you ran a honeypot operation to
kind of prove what you thought. Can you
just talk about that meeting and what
was going on? Can you just give us a
glimpse behind the scenes of what
happened in that meeting? Well, so
actually first before that, okay,
>> what happened is we needed to figure out
like who was doing this.
>> And I my assumption was that this was
probably
a former employee that left, you know,
because sometimes people leave one
company, they go to another. Yep.
>> And sometimes people like, you shouldn't
do this. It's wrong. It's legal. But
sometimes it happens that people take
some stuff on the way out. Y. And so I
was like, maybe there's someone who kind
of like, you know, did did their new
employer a favor on the way and sort of
unethically y
>> instead of, you know, what what we would
do in a situation like that is we would
say, whoa, whoa, whoa, like don't, you
know, delete that. We don't want, you
know, and and unethically they said
goody, you know, like great. And then
what we did is, you know, the the the
sort of light signature of of the
behavior that really popped up was the
search history in Slack. like what you
know there were certain searches that
this person had to have been doing.
>> So did you invite your IT guy in like
how how did it
>> well so this is the crazy thing is the
search logs in Slack are not visible to
Slack clients. Oh, you ping Salesforce
>> and so and in fact like cynically I
think they were doing it in this way
precisely to avoid detection is they
were doing searches and then getting
things from not joining the channels but
getting things from the preview from the
search from the actual searches and so
really the only way we were able to do
this is we got introduced to some like
very senior people at Salesforce who
like to their credit you know sort of
agreed to help us track this down and
they they pulled from their own internal
logs,
>> what the search history was, and it was
very clear exactly who the person was,
and that person was still an active
Ripling employee.
>> Who was the one who came up with the
idea to look at that particular thing
>> to look at the searches?
>> Yes.
>> I can't even remember, but it it was so
obvious. It was like
>> you called a meeting of a bunch of smart
people and like how are we going to
catch them?
>> It was like I mean it was a very small
team. It was like, you know, it was
like, you know, me, my my general
counsel, like, you know, the deputy GC,
you know, it was like a it was like two
or three people on legal, two or three
people in security, and it was like,
hey,
>> how are we going to catch them?
>> You know, to to get this the Slacks that
we saw, they must have done these
searches to get, you know, so we and
these are weird searches like someone
and so we've got to be able to find
this. And so then we we we clearly
there's one person that was like doing
this and it was very clear who it was.
The big kind of insight was like well
look it's actually cuz we were thinking
like is there something that we could do
where we could put something in Slack
you know like maybe like put like a fake
customer in Salesforce with a phone
number that like goes to our law firm
put that in Slack and like see if a deal
sales rep calls that phone number you
know and like kind of triangulate that
way. And it was just it was too hard to
sort of know like cuz we it was too hard
to see what deal would be doing with it.
And so the insight was realizing that
you could flip it around and you could
actually the thing that we could see was
the searches and so we could see what
this guy was searching for and so we had
to do it the other way. We had to give
some information to deal and see uh this
guy searched for it.
>> How did you get the information to deal?
So, [clears throat] you know, look, a
lot of companies that are in competing
spaces have some somewhat regular
exchange of like legal letters where,
you know, for whatever reason, you know,
they send you a letter and they're like,
"We're angry that this person joined and
make sure that they're, you know, or
this person recruited someone they
weren't supposed to recruit and, you
know, and so this is a sort of fairly
form, there's a sort of low level of
that that was kind of happening." And so
there happened to have been a letter
that they had sent us about something or
other related to a deal employee that
had joined Riplane that we had, you
know, sort of I think at the time had
decided we're not even going to bother
responding to this. But we suddenly
said, well, let's respond to it. And
when we responded to it and we said,
"Okay, we decided to put together like a
screenshot of a a Slack message." Um,
that was like basically like a a fake
Slack message. Although to make sure
that it wasn't actually fake, we
actually had someone send that Slack
message so we could we could be like,
"No, no, it was a real Slack message."
But but we put this thing together and
the Slack message what's actually the
funniest part of this is that initially
this was designed by the legal team and
man the Slack message was so boring. It
was it was like
>> no one would have cared. It was so
uninteresting
>> and so and this was a very you know
closed circle of like you weren't
allowed to tell anyone about what was
going on. And so I called up our former
CMO um who was like uh that he had moved
into a new role at Ripane. Uh but he was
like one of the things about him that's
so amazing is he's like just great at
writing coming up with like cold email
messages. And so he was always the guy
we went to when we needed like a new
cold email to send people that was and
so I called up Mebstein and I said,
"Mebbstein, we need you to write a cold
email that's going to have a 100% S1 to
S2 conversion rate that like like
definitely someone's going to have to
click on this." Yeah.
>> And he came up with the actual thing and
it was this message that sort of
suggested that there was this channel in
rippling Slack called DD defectors
>> where ex deal employees were talking
about deal maybe in ways that were
unflattering and there were you know we
sent them the message and then just for
added sort of theatrical effect we like
blacked out like key parts of it you
know to just be like really be like what
are the blacked out parts of it and and
it was included in this letter that we
sent to um their CFO who is you know the
CEO's father um and their outside
counsel um and their head of of legal
[snorts] the sort of person's title. So
there's only three people. One of them,
you know, presumably it's not the
outside council. And then the other two
are quite senior within the company. And
we sent them this letter, you know, at
like I think it was like 8:00 p.m. And
then we waited. And I remember waking up
at like 4 in the morning and checking my
Slack and and there was just all these
messages. It was like, "Holy [__] they
did it." And like we were getting
>> somebody was searching on that channel.
He was searching and going in, you know,
this going into this channel and like,
you know, it's a it was purposefully a
weird search term. It never been
searched before. We checked, you know,
it was not a real channel, you know, so
there's only one way that this could
have happened.
>> Okay, now you know who it is. Your month
and a half search is over.
>> Then what happened?
>> Well, then you know
>> who approached him.
>> So this the the employee was was based
in Ireland. Yes. And Ireland has um the
Irish legal system has an extraordinary
form of relief in civil litigation that
allows you to file an exparte process.
So basically you can you don't have to
alert the other side. You can go to
court and get without the other side
being aware of it an order from the
court that's effectively sort of like a
warrant. You know in the US legal system
that exists in like a criminal case but
not in civil litigation.
Um, and so we we were able to get this
because of the sort of strength of the
evidence that sort of there was a court
order to get access to this guy's phone
and and so there was a court officer
that came to
>> police officerish person.
>> I don't know about police officer but
court officer. It was like a solicitor
is the uniform.
>> I actually don't know. But but in in in
the Irish legal system there solicitors
and barristers and you know and so maybe
more like a lawyer
>> wearing a white wig or
>> man I don't even know now. I'm going to
look that up. But anyway, you know they
showed up at the office met this guy was
take you know sort of you know went into
a room for a meeting and there was this
team array with you know sort of
forensic IT people. sort of officer of
the court said, "Look, I've got this
order for your phone." And um he uh sort
of said, "I don't have my phone with me.
I need to go get it." That turned out
not to be true. Um and then he sort of
while he was like going to get it, kind
of ran into a bathroom and locked
himself in the bathroom. And what we
later learned is that in the bathroom,
he did a factory reset on his phone,
tried to flush it down the toilet,
>> and then came out of the the bathroom.
And you know, the the court officer was
telling him, "Look, you're violating the
court order. There's, you know, this is
something that you can be in prison
for." And he ran out of the building and
took off. Yep. And then you know over
the next sort of 10 to 12 days there was
this sort of b sort of ongoing legal
process to try and get you know sort of
like real like police enforcement of
this to get this guy to get a lawyer to
sort of and you know get like contempt
charges filed. And eventually what
happened is is he um you know sort of
facing you know sort of these legal
consequences.
He eventually sort of like turned and
sort of started cooperating
>> and said that he had destroyed his
phone. But he also um he told us and
this is all you know in the sort of the
sort of court proceedings and the
affidavit that he produced. But
according to these proceedings, you
know, allegedly what happened is that he
immediately after he left our office, he
got u called Alex, the CEO of Deal, told
him what had happened. Alex said someone
would reach out to him, you know,
allegedly and and and then two attorneys
at Deal, like stab like employees of
Deal who were attorneys called him back
and they they told him to destroy his
phone. Um, which is like if you're
that's a that's a bad thing for anyone,
but it's really bad for attorneys to be
to be saying that. um um told him
destroy his phone, get a new burner
phone, um call them back, delete all of
his accounts, and they offered to
relocate him and his family to Dubai um
and get him out of the country. Dubai is
>> no extradition,
>> you know, like not a lot of extradition
options. One of those lawyers, by the
way, who was based in the UK, practiced
law in the UK, has since relocated to
Dubai himself since this all came out.
And so there was and so there was this
crazy thing where he detailed, you know,
like the the person who was doing this
detailed ex everything that happened and
how he was recruited by the CEO directly
and sent all of this information to the
CEO and was paid, how he was paid um and
and all all you know, sort of all of
this stuff. Do you think this is going
on a lot in tech?
>> I don't think it's going on a lot. And
uh look, I think the reason that we
really came forward with this,
>> yeah, you went very public. You know,
obviously there's a reason for rippling
that, you know, for the business, we
need to defend the business. But, you
know, more importantly, I do think that
if deal
sort of moves forward like in a way
that's unscathed,
there is this risk that the overton
window shifts and that this becomes
a norm. You know, that it's sort of like
ah, you know,
>> your competitor paid someone to steal
your CRM data. If you can't stand the
heat, get out of the kitchen. Yeah. You
got to be doing the same thing. And
everyone
>> set a precedent.
>> And everyone's got to have an espionage
team and a counter espionage team and
and and I just don't think that that's
the that's not the way I want the world
to work.
>> Mhm. Okay. Anything else you want to
tell the audience? Any other advice you
would give to founders and people who
want to go from four people to 40 to 400
to 4,000 and 40,000 someday? I think
like everyone kind of needs to find
their own path through this stuff. It's
one of the things that's that's kind of
hardest. Like I don't I don't really
think that there are a lot of rules and
recipes. And so, um, you know, it's why,
um, I probably have like a lot a lot
more, you know, I there was a a point in
in my life when I was like very angry at
investors and and I think I've sort of
sort of reached some point where I
actually have a lot of empathy for
investors and like how hard it is to be
in in their position and and how
impossible the job is. Um and uh because
I think it's really hard, you know, even
if you have a lot of experience
yourself,
you know, there like people all find
their own paths and things change. Like
Ripling was like a business that was
like so close to what we were building
at benefits like it wasn't was the same
industry
slight slightly tinkered with kind of
the the sort of principle kind of the
foundational principles of sort of what
we were building but like the world was
like like four years into the future
from when I had started ZS and that one
thing like changed everything. It was
like, you know, all of the things that,
you know, or many of the things that had
worked for us at Zenovs didn't work at
Riplane and and like, you know, just
like like everything was different
because of a few changes to the starting
assumptions. And it really
>> sort of made me realize why so much of
the advice that people give out about
how to do this is so useless because
everyone is fighting yesterday's war. M
>> um you know from their own experience
and like
>> things are very different you know
things have changed just because of the
slow advance of time
>> if not because this is a completely
different business in a completely a
different industry with a totally
different set of people.
>> Um so it's it's a real struggle. Um, and
it it's probably one of the reasons why
I'm like, man, it sucks. If you have any
other any other thing that you can go
do, like maybe that's the right thing to
do instead of instead of getting
involved in this whole thing.
>> I appreciate you. Thank you on behalf of
the listeners. You're an inspiration to
many. Congrats on all your success.
Congrats on your revenge tour.
>> Well, thank you very much.
>> Appreciate you.
>> Okay. Hope you like that interview with
Parker. I really liked it. He's a smart
guy on hiring. He's got a bunch of cool
ideas. Uh, some of which I'm definitely
going to borrow. I like his idea that if
he's got a candidate that's coming to
meet him, he sends them an old board
deck or his investor memo, lets them
read it, and he spends like the first
half of the interview just talking about
that. And the reaction of the candidate
to that memo and the ideas they come up
with really says a lot about them. I
love that he does that. He relies a lot
on on reference checks. He does
something interesting there. He asks the
candidate to give him six references,
which is kind of a lot, and he only
calls two. He's trying to figure out if
they have six references or not. But
then he leans much more heavily on the
blind references. And this is something
I did as well. I would say 60% of my
decision criteria was around the the
third party references of people who
used to work for them. So, I thought
that was interesting. This is something
we didn't do at HubSpot, but I really
liked how he hires a lot of ex-founders.
And he talked about how ex-founders are
used to breaking the laws of physics.
They're used to just really tight
constraints and having to really do hard
things. And so he has them sprinkled
throughout his or he's had a lot of
success with them. He likes his senior
team to be a mix of homegrown talent and
been there, done that talent. And this
is pretty consistent across most of the
CEOs I interviewed. And I feel like it's
a little bit of conventional wisdom and
scale up land that you just hire a bunch
of been there done that people. I'm not
sure that's right. A lot of HubSpot's
team over the years was 50% homegrown
and 50% been there, done that. And that
mix I think is just about right. I took
some things away from on pace. He's at
4,000 people. A lot of companies slow
down when you hit 4,000 people. He seems
to be keeping the pace up. And he does a
few things that I think are smart. And a
lot of the CEOs I interviewed do a
couple of these things. First, he really
tries to stay on the coal face with the
customer. He's one of the most active
users of Ripling, the product. He runs
payroll for all 4,000 employees in
Ripling. So, he stays very close to the
customer experience through that. He
stays on the coal face with the
employees, too. He sits right inside the
engineering organization where he can
see what's going on, hear what's going
on. And he talked about the CEO sets the
pace. CEO slows down, the or slows down.
CEO speeds up, the or speeds up. One of
my big takeaways on Parker is he doesn't
have a chip on his shoulder. He's got a
boulder on his shoulder. And that
boulder really drives him. He calls it
his revenge tour, the whole company. I
think this is pretty common amongst some
of the best CEOs and can be a real
motivator. And in his case, David Saxs
put a boulder on his shoulder. I have a
chip on my shoulder and I had an old
boss put it there. I had a guy work for
for a decade. When I went to resign, he
said, "You'll be nothing without me."
And this is like 30 years ago and I
still remember. And if I really want to
get fired up, I think about the day I
resigned from that company. So Boulder
on the shoulder, super useful. Channel
it. Uh I think it can be really useful
for you. My last thought on Parker and
about scale up startup land rit large. I
meet with lots and lots of founders
these days. There's a new breed of
founder I call five tool founders. Now a
great baseball player can hit, can hit
with power, can catch, can run and throw
all at an elite level. And I'm noticing
a new breed of founder who is kind of
like that. And I think Parker's one of
them. I think Brett from Sierra is one
of them. Mati from 11 Labs. Gabe from
Rogo. Darra from Deli where they're very
good at coding. They're very good at
design. They have vision. They can
recruit and they can sell. Those are all
five tools that they have in their bag.
And I'm noticing more and more of them.
And if you're one of those founders
that's deeply technical like them, but
can't quite storytell and sell, I would
work on that and [music] get some
coaching on that and get some feedback
on it because those five tool players
are worth their weight and gold. And if
you can be a five tool player, that
really opens up a lot of doors for you.
Okay, those are my thoughts. Lots of
takeaways from Parker. I'll see you on
the next episode.
>> [music]